docs(devlog): DevLog @ 2025.07.18 (#289)
moeru-ai/airi: docs/content/en/blog/DevLog-2025.07.18/index.md

The current code has poor robustness and maintainability. If new friends want to participate in development, or even just try it out, starting this project is very difficult.

## Factorio Learning Environment

Fast forward to now, I plan to properly organize this project, but I don't know where to start. Coincidentally, someone mentioned a paper called [Factorio Learning Environment](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.09617). Let me give you a simple read-through.

In this paper, the authors proposed a framework called Factorio Learning Environment (FLE), where they tested AI's capabilities in long-term planning, program synthesis, resource management, and spatial reasoning.

FLE has two modes:

- Lab-play: Testing in 24 manually designed levels with limited resources, examining whether AI can efficiently build production lines with limited resources.
- Open-play: Unlimited large maps, with the goal of building the largest factory on procedurally generated maps, testing AI's long-term autonomous goal setting, exploration, and expansion capabilities.

> They evaluated mainstream LLMs like Claude 3.5 Sonnet, GPT-4o, Deepseek-v3, Gemini-2, etc., but in Lab-play, even the strongest Claude 3.5 at the time only completed 7 levels.

Author: Wow, thank you, but these models appeared after the cutoff date of your knowledge base.

- The Lua mod only contains primitive operations for execution, such as place_entity for placing entities. More complex logic is written in Python, which can reduce the possibility of bugs in the Lua mod, so we don't need to restart the game so frequently.
- Using `/sc` commands instead of `/c` commands to execute Lua code, which doesn't output code to the console, keeping the console clean and only leaving the necessary content, simplifying the difficulty of parsing standard input.

To better evaluate LLM capabilities, they also carefully analyzed all the required recipe production processes and difficulties, summarizing some formulas, such as the cost of producing an item, how to calculate LLM scores, etc.

They also posted their [system prompt](https://arxiv.org/html/2503.09617v1#A8.SS4), which specifies the environment structure, response format, best practices, how to understand game output, etc.

## Back to `airi-factorio`

Compared to FLE, our implementation seems quite naive. So how should we improve `airi-factorio`?

> I don't want to write Python, I'm only familiar with TypeScript and Golang. Coincidentally, we recently also wrote [mcp-launcher](https://github.com/moeru-ai/mcp-launcher), a builder suitable for all possible MCP servers. We can use it with Golang to implement an MCP server, then let the LLM call it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I don't want to write Python, I'm familiar with TypeScript and Golang, only. Coincidentally, we made [mcp-launcher](https://github.com/moeru-ai/mcp-launcher) just a few ago, a builder suitable for all possible MCP servers. We can use it with Golang to implement an MCP server, then let the LLM call it.
```

> So the structure diagram has changed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With that, the structure diagram has changed:
```
